couchbase-cli-cluster-init(1)
=============================

NAME
----
couchbase-cli-cluster-init - Initializes a Couchbase cluster


SYNOPSIS
--------
[verse]
'couchbase-cli cluster-init' [--cluster <url>] [--cluster-username <username>]
	  [--cluster-port <port>] [--cluster-ramsize <megabytes>]
	  [--cluster-name <name>][--cluster-index-ramsize <megabytes>]
	  [--cluster-fts-ramsize <megabytes>] [--index-storage-setting <setting>]
	  [--services <services>]

DESCRIPTION
-----------
Initializes the first node in a Couchbase cluster. Before initializing a cluster
you need to decide which services you will be running on this individual node as
well as the memory quota for each service you are starting. Services started
with cluster-init will be local on this server only and future servers that are
added to this cluster may be configured with different or similar services
running on them. Note that the data service is always required on the first
node. Memory quotas for each service are global settings and will apply to each
node added to the cluster. The memory quota for a service only applies if that
service is running on a given server. You may also define the index storage mode
using the --index-storage-setting which will determine how the global secondary
indexes (GSI) are created. See the index storage mode parameter below for more
details on how this parameter is set with cluster-init.

OPTIONS
-------

include::part-common-options.txt[]

--cluster-ramsize::
	Specifies the data services memory quota. This quota will be assigned to all
	future nodes added to the cluster with the data service.

--cluster-fts-ramsize::
	Sets the full-text service memory quota. This parameter is required if the
	full-text service is specified in the --services option. This quota will be
	assigned to all future nodes added to the cluster with the full-text
	service.

--cluster-index-ramsize::
	Sets the index service memory quota. This parameter is required if the index
	service is specified in the --services option. This quota will be assigned
	to all future nodes added to the cluster with the index service.

--cluster-name::
	Sets the name for this cluster. Naming clusters is useful when you have
	multiple Couchbase clusters in your deployment.

--cluster-port::
	Specifies the port for the Couchbase Administration Console. Defaults to
	port 8091.

--index-storage-setting::
	Specifies the index storage mode for the index service. Accepted storage
	modes are "default" for the forestdb index backend or "memopt" for memory
	optimized indexes. If the index service is specified to be started with the
	--services command then this parameter defaults to "default". If the index
	service is not specified to be started then the index storage mode will not
	be set. You will then be required to set the index storage mode when the
	first index service is started on a server in the cluster. You may also
	define the index storage mode even if an index service is not started on the
	first node and it will be remembered when the first index service is added
	in the future. You may not change this parameter after it has been set.

--services::
	Specifies the services to start on this cluster. You may not change the
	services running on this node once the cluster has been initialized. This
	options takes a comma separated list of services. Accepted services are
	"data", "index", "query", and "fts". If a user wants to start a cluster with
	the index and data service then they would specify \-\-service data,index.
	This parameter defaults to "data" to add only the data service.

include::part-host-formats.txt[]

EXAMPLES
--------

To create a Couchbase cluster with only the data service on the first node and a
memory quota of 4096MB run the following command.

	$ couchbase-cli cluster-init -c 127.0.0.1 --cluster-username Administrator \
	 --cluster-password password --services data --cluster-ramsize 4096

If we want to create a Couchbase cluster with the data and index service then we
also need to set the memory quotas for each service as well as the index storage
mode since we are starting the index service.

To create a cluster with an index memory quota of 1024MB, a data service memory
quota of 2048MB and a memory optimized index storage mode run the following
command.

	$ couchbase-cli cluster-init -c 127.0.0.1 --cluster-username Administrator \
	 --cluster-password password --services data,index --cluster-ramsize 2048 \
	 --cluster-index-ramsize 1024 --index-storage-setting memopt

If we want to create a Couchbase cluster with all services then we need to set
the memory quotas for the data, index, and full-text service. We will set the
quotas to 2048MB, 1024MB, and 1024MB respectively. We do not need to set a quota
for the query service since it does not have a memory quota. We also need to set
the index storage mode for the index service which we will set to "default"
since we will be starting that service on our first node.

	$ couchbase-cli cluster-init -c 127.0.0.1 --cluster-username Administrator \
	 --cluster-password password --services data,index,query,fts \
	 --cluster-ramsize 2048 --cluster-index-ramsize 1024 \
	 --cluster-fts-ramsize 1024 --index-storage-setting default \

If we want to change the port number we can do so with the --cluster-port
option. In the example below we will set up a cluster on port 5000 and start
only the data service. We will set the memory quota of the data service to 2048MB.

	$ couchbase-cli cluster-init -c 127.0.0.1 --cluster-username Administrator \
	 --cluster-password password --services data --cluster-ramsize 2048 \
	 --cluster-port 5000

DISCUSSION
----------

The cluster-init subcommand sets up the first node on a Couchbase cluster. To
set per node settings such as the data storage directory, index storage
directory, or hostname see the linkcli:couchbase-cli-node-init[1] command. To
add nodes to a currently initialized cluster use the
linkcli:couchbase-cli-server-add[1] command. Some cluster settings may be
changed after a cluster is initialized. Use the
linkcli:couchbase-cli-setting-cluster[1] command to edit these settings.

ENVIRONMENT AND CONFIGURATION VARIABLES
---------------------------------------

include::part-common-env.txt[]

SEE ALSO
--------
linkcbdoc:couchbase-cli-cluster-edit[1].
linkcbdoc:couchbase-cli-node-init[1].
linkcbdoc:couchbase-cli-server-add[1].

COUCHBASE-CLI
-------------
Part of the linkgit:couchbase-cli[1] suite
